Dear who wishes to read my code,
I have created this project as a way to better understand how PHP and MySQL
 works after taking the PHP free code academy course online.
This project has not only improved my skills in PHP and MySQL
but has taught myself how to use php storm as a code editor although
when i'm not coding in PHP i still prefer using visual studio code.
Through the week and a half of creating this I have also been able to
learn how to use owl carousel to filter through items, practice using sass
and Jquery as these areas have been marginally improved. Although a must thank
daily tuition complete mobile shopee e-commerce website course - PHP & MySQL.
I have followed through the video to teach me how all of these technologies work
and how to apply them. Although I have copied his photos and MySQL database
to make the project quicker. As you may find by seeing set prices and a set star rating
as they are set to the single product type. Going back to how i prefer to use visual studio
code you can see where i first started making the project in visual studio code in the HTML Template
folder. Then when i started using php i copied and pasted it all into new php folders as that was
the idea to start using PHP while also learning the best code editor to use for editing PHP.
Also when creating this project i came into a few problems with connecting the JavaScript folder
. So i would have to create a new one to go around this problem then connect the new folder instead.
the same problem occurred with making style.css.

Phone Store 

When deciding on what project I was to make next I came across the idea of making a website that first had to be made from PHP as I had been studying it at the time but had not tried creating anything with the language. Although it’s not a language that many people would recommend to learn I believe it’s a critical language to at least know the basic and the fundamentals on how it works as PHP is used by 78.9% of all websites. When it came to choosing the type of website I went for the phone shop clone website as when I was applying for Jobs at the time and there were a lot of job’s asking for people with experience with working with E-commerce websites. So I decided to choose to clone a E-commerce website. Although without adding the paying part and having fake products although based on real products. After some searching I found a tutorial on how to create one by Daily Tuition on youtube. Running through this video I was also able to learn how to implement Owl carousel with jquery, Learn how to use PHPStorm, XAMPP while also updating my skills with MySQL. Further when it came to publishing it on the web I soon found out that it wasn't as simple as with my previous Javascript projects as there are Static and Dynamic websites.


When making the  Phone Clone Website

When making the  Phone Clone Website I made it as a clone as I have no intention to sell any products. So when it came to writing descriptions I used Lorem to make a random descriptive or review paragraph https://www.lipsum.com/.   For finding the products I used  the pictures from Daily Tuition’s GitHub https://github.com/akashyap2013/Mobil…. You can find his video on this project on Daily Tuition youtube channel under Complete Mobile Shopee E-Commerce Website Course - PHP & MySQL which is just over five hrs long. As he runs through in depth on how to use PHP to create this project. Through this project I was able to learn how to work with PHP on a larger scale by breaking up the main files (home page, checkout and item page) into a variety of smaller ones for cleaner files. This is so it’s easier for myself to edit or another person to find the right part. Then I called on the smaller files on the main files making for a cleaner developer experience with less lines of code in each file. 


Finding out the diversity of PHP and the challenges that comes with it.

For myself PHP has been an amazing language to work with and in some cases far more preferred than working with JavaScript as this may be due to working with PHP storm as making function calls come to be more dynamic and easier to use. The one problem I came across was the lack of information and libraries found on the internet as the PHP community is far smaller than the Javascript community.  So working with most tutorials some of the libraries where outdated what I thoroughly enjoy as this allows myself to look up the latest versions but most of all it lets myself practise with debugging code. 

Extra Learning with mySQL, XAMPP and Owl Carousel 2.

From this tutorial I was able to learn a further amount of skills such as learning how to work with XAMPP, Owl Carousel 2 and getting a better understanding of how to use mySQL / jquery. When going into this project it was the first time working with PHP as previously I had only worked with it for writing functions. So when it came to hosting the local host I quickly learnt that it wasn't as easy as clicking live server on visual studio code. Soon learning that you had to download XAMPP then have the file in the right directory so then you can find it through the url of your web browser. Then going on to the XAMPP control panel to start Apache and connect the MySQL database to PHP storm. Although Owl Carousel 2 might not come off as that important of a plugin to learn, it allowed me to have a lot of practice with writing in jQuery in PHP. Not only did this allow myskills to get an update on jQuery and implement plugins but also with using Owl Carousel 2. I was able to get some more practise in using  and creating a MySQL database to connect the pictures to the webpage which I had never done previously while also using it to keep track of the users and what they have added to their cart.

Learning how to Publish 

Once I had Finished the project it was time to upload it to the internet which is usually extremely simple with Glitch, Repl.it and on github with git pages in previous projects that were static websites. Although soon enough I learnt the difference between Static and Dynamic websites. To upload my website I chose to go through the website infinity free to host the website where I used a variety of different youtube tutorials and webpages to work out how to host my particular website/Database and also adding a Domain name to it. For the domain name I decided to create it through Infinity free as i did not deem it that important naming it compared to naming my portfolio. 

So all up I went from just trying to create a website with PHP I have been able to learn and advance my skills all across the board of web development. From the basics of writing in PHP, jQuery to implement plugins then using XAMPP to using for live hosting while editing and MySQL as my database with the photos and keeping track of the users activity. Then to finish off I was able to learn a crucial part of web development being the difference of hosting a static website compared to hosting a Dynamic website.

By James Watson 
